There are a number of ways to scale vertically:

Image   Adding more I/O capacity by adding more hard drives in Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) arrays. I/O throughput and disk saturation are the main bottlenecks in database servers. Adding more drives and setting up a RAID array can help to distribute reads and writes across more devices. In recent years, RAID 10 has become especially popular, as it gives both redundancy and increased throughput. From an application perspective, a RAID array looks like a single volume, but underneath it is a collection of drives sharing the reads and writes.

Image   Improving I/O access times by switching to solid-state drives (SSDs). Solid-state drives are becoming more and more popular as the technology matures and prices continue to fall. Random reads and writes using SSDs are between 10 and 100 times faster, depending on benchmark methodology. By replacing disks you can decrease I/O wait times in your application. Unfortunately, sequential reads and writes are not much faster and you will not see such a massive performance increase in real-world applications. In fact, most open-source databases (like MySQL) optimize data structures and algorithms to allow more sequential disk operations rather than depending on random access I/O. Some data stores, such as Cassandra, go even further, using solely sequential I/O for all writes and most reads, making SSD even less attractive.

Image   Reducing I/O operations by increasing RAM. (Even 128GB RAM is affordable nowadays if you are hosting your application on your own dedicated hardware.) Adding more memory means more space for the file system cache and more working memory for the applications. Memory size is especially important for efficiency of database servers.

Image   Improving network throughput by upgrading network interfaces or installing additional ones. If your server is streaming a lot of video/media content, you may need to upgrade your network provider’s connection or even upgrade your network adapters to allow greater throughput.

Image   Switching to servers with more processors or more virtual cores. Servers with 12 and even 24 threads (virtual cores) are affordable enough to be a reasonable scaling option. The more CPUs and virtual cores, the more processes that can be executing at the same time. Your system becomes faster, not only because processes do not have to share the CPU, but also because the operating system will have to perform fewer context switches to execute multiple processes on the same core.

Unfortunately, vertical scaling comes with some serious limitations, the main one being cost. Vertical scalability becomes extremely expensive beyond a certain point.43


Finally, operating system design or the application itself may prevent you from scaling vertically beyond a certain point. For example, you will not be able to keep adding CPUs to keep scaling MySQL infinitely, due to increasing lock contention (especially if you use an older MySQL storage engine called MyISAM).
Locks are used to synchronize access between execution threads to shared resources like memory or files. Lock contention is a performance bottleneck caused by inefficient lock management. Operations performed very often should have fine-grained locks; otherwise, your application may spend most of its time waiting for locks to be released. Once you hit a lock contention bottleneck, adding more CPU cores does not increase the overall throughput.


- Cloud service providers are able to charge lower rates for higher-traffic clients because their overheads of maintenance, 
integration, and customer care are lower per capacity unit when dealing with high-traffic sites.