1) Purpose and mission statement:

You identify the purpose of your database and define it within a mission statement. This will help ensure that you develop 
an appropriate database structure and that you collect the data necessary to support the intended purpose of the database.


2) 
The second phase in the database design process involves analyzing the current database if one exists. 
Another part of the analysis involves conducting interviews with users and management to identify how 
they interact with the database on a daily basis.You must conduct full and complete interviews in a timely, practical, 
and effective manner if you are to design a database that truly meets your organization’s information needs.
Next, you use the information you’ve gathered from the analysis and the interviews to compile an initial list of fields. 
You then refine this list by removing all calculated fields and placing them on their own list. You’ll use these calculated 
fields later in the design process. The refined list constitutes your organization’s fundamental data requirements and 
provides a starting point for the design of a new database.After your initial field list is complete, you send it to your 
users and management for a brief review and possible refinement. You encourage feedback (as best as possible) and take their 
suggestions for modifications into consideration. If you think the suggestions are reasonable and well supported, you make 
the appropriate modifications, record the list in its current state, and move on to the next phase.


3) Creating data structures:

Creating the data structures for the database is the third phase in the database design process. You define tables and fields, 
establish keys, and define field specifications for every field.

4) DETERMINING AND ESTABLISHING TABLE RELATIONSHIPS:

You conduct interviews with users and management once again, identify relationships, identify relationship characteristics, 
and establish relationship-level integrity.


5) DETERMINING AND DEFINING BUSINESS RULES:

Determining and defining business rules is the fifth phase of the database design process. During this phase, you’ll conduct 
interviews, identify limitations on various aspects of the database, establish business rules, and define and implement 
validation tables.you define and implement validation tables as necessary to support certain business rules. Suppose you 
find that certain fields have a finite range of values because of the manner in which your organization 
uses them. You can use validation tables to ensure the consistency and validity of the values stored in those fields.

Business constrint examples are:

The interviews you conduct with users will reveal specific limitations on various aspects of the database. For example, 
a user working with an order processing database is very aware of specific details, such as the fact that a ship date must 
occur later than an order date; that there must always be a daytime phone number; and that a shipping method should always 
be indicated. Your interviews with management, on the other hand, reveal general limitations on various aspects of the database. 
For example, the office manager for an entertainment agency is familiar with general issues such as the fact that an agent
can represent no more than 20 entertainers and that promotional information for each entertainer must be updated every year.

6) DETERMINING AND DEFINING VIEWS:
For example, that many users require detailed information to perform their work, whereas others need only summary 
information to help them make strategic decisions for the organization. Each group of users must access information in 
very specific ways, and you can use views to accommodate these situations.

Next, you define the views you’ve identified during the interview process using the appropriate tables and fields and 
establish criteria for those views that are required to retrieve specific information. For instance, you would establish 
criteria for a view that must list all customers 
located in Texas or a view that must display the total number of authorized vendors (by city) in Washington.

7) REVIEWING DATA INTEGRITY:

First, you review each table to ensure that it meets the criteria of a properly designed table and check the fields 
within each table for proper structure. You then resolve any inconsistencies or problems you encounter 
and review the structures once more. Now you can verify that your tables have table-level integrity.

Second, you review and check the field specifications for each field. You make necessary refinements to the fields and 
then check field-level integrity. This review reaffirms the field-level integrity you identified and established earlier 
in the database design process.

Third, you review the validity of each relationship, confirm the relationship type, and confirm the participation characteristics 
for each table within the relationship. You then review relationship integrity to ensure that there are matching values between 
shared fields and that no problems occur when inserting, updating, or deleting data in either of the tables within the relationship.

Finally, you review the business rules that you identified earlier in the database design process and confirm the constraints 
you’ve placed on various aspects of the database. If any other limitations have come to your attention since the last 
set of personnel interviews, you establish them as new business rules and add them to the existing set of business rules.

