- focus not on exposing on your company’s internal infrastructure but on the experience that an outside developer should have when interacting with your API. 

- Make It Fast and Easy to Get Started
- In addition to interactive documentation, tools such as software development kits (SDKs) can go a long way toward helping 
developers use your API. These code packages are designed to help developers 
get up and running quickly with their projects by simplifying some of the transactional layers and setup of an application.

- Work Toward Consistency
Consistency generally means that there are a number of patterns and conventions repeated throughout your API, in such a way that 
developers can begin to predict how to use your API without seeing the documentation. That could include anything from data access 
patterns to error handling to naming. The reason consistency is important is that it reduces the cognitive load on developers who 
are trying to figure out your API. Consistency helps your existing developers in adapting new features by reducing forks 
in their code, and it helps new developers hit the ground running with everything you’ve built on your API. 

- Make Troubleshooting Easy
Another best practice for designing APIs is making troubleshooting easy for developers. 
This can be done through returning meaningful errors as well as by building tooling.

Categorise errors:

Error category	Examples
System-level error	
Database connection issue

Backend service connection issue

Fatal error

Business logic error	
Rate-limited

Request fulfilled, but no results were found

Business-related reason to deny access to information

API request formatting error	
Required request parameters are missing

Combined request parameters are invalid together

Authorization error	
OAuth credentials are invalid for request

Token has expired

----- https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807 -- 
Error category	HTTP status	HTTP headers	Error code (machine-readable)	Error message (human-readable)
System-level error	500	--	--	--
Business logic error	429	Retry-After	rate_limit_exceeded	“You have been rate-limited. See Retry-After and try again.”
API request formatting error	400	--	missing_required_parameter	“Your request was missing a {user} parameter.”
Auth error	401	--	invalid_request	“Your ClientId is invalid.”


Before you troubleshoot real-time traffic, be sure to respect customer privacy by redacting any 
personally identifiable information (PII). 

- Make Your API Extensible


APi design steps:
------------------
- what problem are you trying to solve, and what is the impact you want to have by building this API?

What APIs are available, and what are their patterns and conventions?

What are the most popular features of the comparable APIs that you have already released? Can you use existing 
instrumenting or logging to pull supporting metrics?

What would you most like to change about the APIs that you already have, and what is your strategy for doing so?

Which other teams will be affected by your new API, and how can you get their feedback early?

After you outline the problem and desired impact, write down some of the use cases that you expect your API to fulfill.

As a [user type], I want [action] so that [outcome]

Paradigm	Pros	Cons	Selected?
REST	
MyFiles is essentially resource-oriented—the resources are the archived content and metadata.

The operations to support are simple Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) operations.

REST would be a long-term commitment to a resources model for files. If we need to support several actions, REST might not be a great fit.	✓
RPC	Expandable to other actions beyond CRUD.	At this time, there are no operations outside of CRUD that this API will execute, so there doesn’t appear to be a need to support other actions.	χ
GraphQL	
Flexible for developers.

Easy to keep payloads small.

Overly complicated to implement. No client presentation needed at this time.	χ

Write an API Specification:
----------------------------
Now that you’ve made some key high-level decisions, it’s time to write a specification (also called a spec). 
The spec gives you an opportunity to think through your design thoroughly. It also serves as an artifact that 
you can use to communicate with other people, especially when you are soliciting feedback from stakeholders. 
Finally, after you have reached agreement on the spec, 
it serves as a contract, enabling you to build the various parts of the API implementation in parallel.


THE INTRODUCTION FOR THE MYFILES API TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION
A strong spec starts off with a high-level summary, detailing major decisions you’ve made, and a brief explanation of why you made those decisions. The following offers an example of how that might look for MyFiles.

Title
Proposal: MyFiles API Spec

Authors
Brenda Jin

Saurabh Sahni

Amir Shevat

Problem
Our archive repositories provide valuable file metadata to our direct customers. Customers use this data to integrate with business-critical services, but they are currently doing so by downloading CSVs and uploading CSVs to other business products. We are currently not providing a way to programmatically grant access to the repository metadata to customers who use third-party integrations.

Solution
Build an API that allows developers to programmatically access MyFiles files.

Implementation
For this API, we’ve decided to use REST for the following reasons:

REST resource paradigm matches how MyFiles treats files in our tech stack.

Desired file operations for the API match closely to CRUD operations.

No need for event transport at this time.

Authentication
This API will use OAuth 2.0 with refresh tokens and token expiry.

Other things we considered
WebHooks are a great way for developers to get information about user events, such as files uploaded and files changed without continuously polling for data. We’ve decided to incorporate an outline of how these would work. We anticipate building those as a phase 2 for the API.

We have decided not to implement a DELETE operation for third-party developers at this time, because we consider it high risk and unnecessary for the initial API launch.



Event driven api:
------------------
Pros and cons of event-driven API paradigms for the MyFiles API
Paradigm	Pros	Cons	Selected?
WebHooks ->	MyFiles developers might want to receive an event every time files are added, removed, or changed.	If files are changing too frequently, we might need sophisticated infrastructure to deduplicate events so that we don’t inadvertently initiate distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) events on our developers’ applications.	✓
WebSockets -> 	Can be used by internal clients for UI display.	
We don’t want developers creating UI clients for MyFiles via the API.

We don’t believe there is a use case to support long-lived connections for the types of events that developers would want to know about.

χ
HTTP Streaming -> Good for pushing data frequently.	With the low frequency of changes per file, we don’t see a need for HTTP Streaming.	χ

REVIEWING THE SPECIFICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS

One of the guiding principles of the design methodology described in this chapter is enabling feedback early and often. 
The spec you have just written is a starting point for much of this, where you can get feedback on the problem, 
the high-level solution, and the nitty-gritty details. Review your spec with others and solicit feedback on the design. 
Find a developer who might build a business integration and ask them what they think. If your stakeholders are internal, 
make sure that you get their input. It is important to go through these cycles of feedback before you write any code because 
the mindsets for creating and consuming an API are different, and the input you receive will help you fix usability issues 
before you start building.

MOCKING DATA FOR INTERACTIVE USER TESTING
We recommend using whatever tools are available to you in order to test your design and gather the feedback you need. One of the tools you might want to use is mock data. 


Worksheet of api design; https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/designing-web-apis/9781492026914/app01.html#appendix