- This is the integration between core doamin and other bounded context.
- Well-defined boundaries and contracts between them support controlled changes over time.

Kinds of mapping:
-----------------
1) Partnership:
---------------
- A Partnership relationship exists between two teams. Each team is responsible for one Bounded Context. 
They create a Partnership to align the two teams with a dependent set of goals. It is said that the two 
teams will succeed or fail together. Since they are so closely aligned, they will meet frequently to 
synchronize schedules and dependent work, and they will have to use continuous integration to keep their 
integrations in harmony. The synchronization is represented by the thick mapping line between the two teams. 

2) Shared Kernel:
-----------------
-  Shared Kernel, depicted on page 54 by the intersection of the two Bounded Contexts, describes the relationship 
between two (or more) teams that share a small but common model. The teams must agree on what model elements they 
are to share. It’s possible that only one of the teams will maintain the code, build, and test for what is shared. 
A Shared Kernel is often very difficult to conceive in the first place, and difficult to maintain, because you must 
have open communication between teams and constant agreement on what constitutes the model to be shared. Still, it 
is possible to be successful if all involved are committed to the idea that the kernel is better than going Separate Ways 

3) Customer-Supplier:
---------------------
A Customer-Supplier describes a relationship between two Bounded Contexts and respective teams, where the Supplier 
is upstream (the U in the diagram) and the Customer is downstream (the D in the diagram). The Supplier holds sway 
in this relationship because it must provide what the Customer needs. It’s up to the Customer to plan with the Supplier 
to meet various expectations, but in the end the Supplier determines what the Customer will get and when. This is a very 
typical and practical relationship between teams, even within the same organization, as long as corporate 
culture does not allow the Supplier to be completely autonomous and unresponsive to the real needs of Customers.

4) Conformist:
---------------
Conformist
A Conformist relationship exists when there are upstream and downstream teams, and the upstream team has no motivation 
to support the specific needs of the downstream team. For various reasons the downstream team cannot sustain an effort 
to translate the Ubiquitous Language of the upstream model to fit its specific needs, so the team conforms to the upstream 
model as is. A team will often become a Conformist, for example, when integrating with a very large and complex model that 
is well established. Example: Consider the need to conform to the Amazon.com model when integrating as one of Amazon’s 
affiliate sellers.

5) Anticorruption Layer:
--------------------------
Anticorruption Layer
An Anticorruption Layer is the most defensive Context Mapping relationship, where the downstream team creates a 
translation layer between its Ubiquitous Language (model) and the Ubiquitous Language (model) that is upstream to it. 
The layer isolates the downstream model from the upstream model and translates between the two. Thus, this is also an 
approach to integration.

Whenever possible, you should try to create an Anticorruption Layer between your downstream model and an upstream 
integration model, so that you can produce model concepts on your side of the integration that specifically fit your 
business needs and that keep you completely isolated from foreign concepts. Yet, just like hiring a translator to act 
between two teams speaking different languages, the cost could be too high in various ways for some cases.

6) Open Host Service:
--------------------
An Open Host Service defines a protocol or interface that gives access to your Bounded Context as a set of services. 
The protocol is “open” so that all who need to integrate with your Bounded Context can use it with relative ease. 
The services offered by the application programming interface (API) are well documented and a pleasure to use. 
Even if you were Team 2 in this diagram and could not take time to create an isolating Anticorruption Layer for 
your side of the integration, it would be much more tolerable to be a Conformist to this model than many legacy 
systems you may encounter. We might say that the language of 
the Open Host Service is much easier to consume than that of other types of systems.

7)Published Language:
-----------------------
A Published Language, illustrated in the image at the bottom of page 57, is a well-documented information exchange 
language enabling simple consumption and translation by any number of consuming Bounded Contexts. Consumers who both 
read and write can translate from and into the shared language with confidence that their integrations are correct. 
Such a Published Language can be defined with XML Schema, JSON Schema, or a more optimal wire format, such as Protobuf 
or Avro. Often an Open Host Service serves and consumes a Published Language, which provides the best integration 
experience for third parties. This combination makes the translations between two Ubiquitous Languages very convenient.

8)Separate ways:
-----------------
Separate Ways describes a situation where integration with one or more Bounded Contexts will not produce significant 
payoff through the consumption of various Ubiquitous Languages. Perhaps the functionality that you seek is not fully 
provided by any one Ubiquitous Language. In this case produce your own specialized solution in your Bounded Context and 
forget integrating for this special case.


Notes:
------
- While using rest, I mean that to the client the resources provided must have the shape and composition of what they need, 
not what the actual domain model looks like. Sometimes the model will look just like what the client needs. 
But what the client needs is what drives the design of the resources, and not the model’s current composition.