Hybrid Code Flow for Authentication:
-------------------------------------
- As the name suggests, this flow is a mix of Authorization code flow and Implicit code flow.
- In the hybrid flow, the client gets immediate access to the identity token from the authorization endpoint itself. 
The client also gets the authorization code from the authorization endpoint. 
Later, it fetches the access token from the token endpoint which can be used to get further user info.

Hybrid flow type:

In hybrid flows, the response_type field should contain code as one of the values 
and token or id_token or token+id_token as the other value

1) response_type="code id_token"

When the value of response_type is code id_token, an authorization code and an ID token are issued from the authorization endpoint, 
and an access token and ID token are issued from the token endpoint.

Both the authorization endpoint and the token endpoint issue an ID token, but the contents of the ID tokens are not always the same.
It is possible that the ID token issued by the authorization server has fewer claims due to security reasons.
When an authorization code is issued together with an ID token from the authorization endpoint, the hash value of the 
authorization code calculated in a certain way has to be embedded in the ID token.

steps:
a) Send an Authorization endpoint.The reponse type field contains "code id_token"
b) Authorization code and Idneitty toekn returned
c) Send request on token endpoint.
d) Access token and id token is returned


2) response_type=“code token”:

When the value of response_type is code token, an authorization code and an access token are issued from the authorization endpoint, 
and an access token is issued from the token endpoint

The token endpoint also issues the ID token if openid is included in the scope request parameter.

steps:
a) Send an Authorization endpoint.The reponse type field contains "code token"
b) Authorization code and Access token returned
c) Send request on token endpoint.
d) Access token and id token is returned

3) response_type=“code token id_token”:

When the value of response_type is code id_token token, an authorization code, an access token, and an ID token are 
issued from the authorization endpoint, 
and an access token and an ID token are issued from the token endpoint.

Note: 

When an ID token is issued from the authorization endpoint, the hash value of the access token has to be embedded in the 
ID token if an access token is also issued. Similarly, 
the hash value of the authorization code has to be embedded in the ID token if an authorization code is also issued.